= party_boy

Models relationships between AR models. Allows you to follow, friend, and block other AR's. Consists of two mixins: acts_as_followable and acts_as_friend. These options allow an AR to inherit either a twitter-like follower system or a facebook-like friend system.

== Installation

If you're running rails 2 use gem version 0.3.2 or the rails-2 branch.

Install the gem
 gem install party_boy
	
Run the generator
 rails generate party_boy
	
This will generate a migration file as well as the necessary Relationship class in your models folder.

== Usage

=== Setup

Add the appropriate mixin to your models:
 class Waterboy < ActiveRecord::Base
  ...
  acts_as_followable
  ...
 end

 class Quarterback < ActiveRecord::Base
  ...
  acts_as_friend
  ...
 end

---

=== acts_as_follower

To allow a model (A) to follow another (B), add acts_as_follow to at least model A. Now, you can follow any other model in your project:
 a = Waterboy.find 1
 b = Quarterback.find 2
 a.follow(b)

To stop following, simply just:
 a.unfollow(b)

Or to block the relationship:
 b.block(a)

To find out if there is a relationship between two models, use the methods:
 a.following?(b)
 b.followed_by?(a)

To retrieve a set of models based on the relationships, use:
 a.following
 b.followers

==== STI

STI is also handled by party_boy. The relationship is always stored using the super-most class. However, relationships to inheriting classes can also be retrieved. Do so by passing in the type:

 class Quarterback < User; end
 class Cheerleader < User; end
 class Waterboy < User; end

In string form
 a.followers('users')
  => [#<User id: 1, created_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42", updated_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42">]
 a.following('quarterbacks')
  => [#<Quarterback id: 3, created_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42", updated_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42">]
Or in class form
 a.followers(User)
  => [#<User id: 1, created_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42", updated_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42">]
 b.following(Quarterback)
  => [#<Quarterback id: 3, created_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42", updated_at: "2010-01-27 01:09:42">]

==== STI - part deux

On top of accessing relationships through followers / following methods, party_boy will dynamically filter the results based on the combined class name:

 a.quarterback_followers		# returns all followers of type quarterback
 b.cheerleader_followers		# returns all followers of type cheerleader
 a.following_quarterbacks		# returns all the quarterbacks 'a' is following
 b.following_cheerleaders		# returns all the cheerleaders 'b' is following

---

=== acts_as_friend

To allow two models to become friends (requiring acceptance), add acts_as_friend to both. Now you can create a relationship between the two models by:

 class Bob < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_friend
 end

 class Joe < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_friend
 end

 b = Bob.create
 j = Joe.create

 b.request_friendship(j)

 b.pending?(j)
  => true

 b.outgoing_friend_requests   # or j.incoming_friend_requests
  => [#<Relationship id: 1, :requestor_id: 1, :requestor_type: 'Bob', requestee_id: 1, requestee_type: 'Joe', restricted: true>]

 j.accept_friendship(b)

 b.friends
  => [#<Joe id: 1>]

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Mike Nelson. See LICENSE for details.
